# README
To build use:
`mvn package`

To run use:
`./run`

To start the server use:
`./run --gui [--port=<port>]`

To use this code, simply run the main method to begin the REPL.

## Commands
###recsys_load responses
**Description**: loads all student data from API & ORM into a hashmap of Student objects. 

**Returns**: "Loaded Recommender with k students"

###recsys_rec <num_recs> <student_id>

**Description**: Generates team recommendations for a student where student is determined by their student_id and the team size determined by num_recs.

**Returns**: A list of IDs corresponding to the recommendation, in order of preference to the input student.

<matched_student_id_1>
<matched_student_id_2>
...
<matched_student_id_k>

###recsys_gen_groups <team_size>

**Description**: Generates recommended teams of size _team_size_, and leftover students are placed in a random team.

**Returns**: A list of IDs representing each student in each team, in order of preference.

[group_1_student_1, group_1_student_2, … group_1_student_k]
[group_2_student_1, group_2_student_2, … group_2_student_k]
...
[group_n_student_1, group_n_student_2, … group_n_student_k]

## Methodology
###Data and Preferences
Data was taken from two sources: the integration API and integration SQLite.

- **IntegrationJSONOpener** handles calling the API and then creating Student objects with the API half of the data.
- **IntegrationORMOpener** handles querying the SQLite DB and then adding the second half of the data to those previously created Student objects.
- This happens in **RecsysLoadResponses**, which implements **CommandHandler**

We decided to handle preferences with mostly matching similar traits, and sometimes matching inverse traits.


###REPL
A software engineer can easily add and remove commands from the REPL without editing the
REPL code itself. Adding a command consists of:
- Creating a class that implements the CommandHandler interface, which requires a run() method.
All code to be executed should be placed within the run() method.
- Adding the command to the _commands_ Hashmap in the Main class. Simply use .put() followed by
the REPL command (a string) and the class that was created above.
- Similarly, to remove a command, simply remove it from the _commands_ Hashmap.

###Recommender System
Recommendations are generated for each student by combining the recommendations generated by a KD Tree and Bloom Filter system.
The students' preferred meeting type, experience, and skills are used to generate KD Tree recs.
The students' preferred meeting time, language, interests, traits, and (if they indicated they prefer similar identity groups) identity group are used to generate Bloom Filter recs.
Recommendations from each system are weighted equally.
****
